docs: add get started with MCP tutorial DOC-2598 (#10112)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Get Started with the Palette MCP Server"
title: "Get Started with the Palette MCP Server"
description: "Learn how to use the Palette MCP Server to connect to and debug cluster deployments."
tags: ["ai", "palette-mcp", "tutorial"]
toc_max_heading_level: 2
category: ["tutorial"]
---

The [Palette MCP Server](https://github.com/spectrocloud/palette-mcp-server) provides an abstraction layer over the

> Palette API, allowing you to interact with Kubernetes resources through natural language. It interprets user intent,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette API, allowing you to interact with Kubernetes resources through natural language. It interprets user intent,
```
Hmm...we are not interacting with Kubernetes resources, at least not directly. I think it may be more accurate to say Palette resources and explain that if you get the kubeconfig, then you can interact with the k8s resources. Hopefully I am making sense 😅

Author: Updated.

translates it into appropriate API requests, and returns structured responses for LLMs to process. By handling the

> complexity of the underlying API, it allows language models to interact with Palette in a consistent and reliable way

Reviewer: Might be a good spot to define LLM and use moving forward?

```suggestion
complexity of the underlying API, it allows Large Language Models (LLM) to interact with Palette in a consistent and reliable way
```

Author: Good shout!

without requiring that users have a detailed knowledge of the API itself.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to use the Palette MCP server to debug cluster deployment issues. You will begin by
importing a cluster profile which has some deliberate errors and use this profile to create a new Palette cluster. Then,
you will use the Palette MCP server to debug these errors and ensure that your cluster works as expected.

> This tutorial uses [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com) and

Reviewer: Could we add a callout that explains that any provider model could be used, but for example purposes, Claude Sonet is used. Just to avoid some newbies thinking only Claude can be used :)

Author: Added an info box now!

client to gather information about the cluster using the [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/)
command line tool.

![MCP Server operation overview](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_mcp-overview.webp)

## MCP Server Capabilities

<PartialsComponent category="palette-mcp" name="mcp-tools" />

Refer to the [Palette MCP Server Operations](../../../automation/palette-mcp/palette-mcp-operations.md) page to learn
what operations the MCP server provides.

## Prerequisites

- Ensure the following software is installed locally on your workstation:

  - The Palette MCP server configured and set up. Refer to the applicable setup guide for
    [Claude](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-claude.md),
    [Cursor](../../../automation/palette-mcp//setup/mcp-setup-cursor.md), or the
    [Gemini CLI](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-gemini.md).

  - A container engine, such as [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) or
    [Podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation).

  - Kubectl installed locally. Use the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) for
    additional guidance.

> 

Reviewer: We are missing the required Palette access to download a kubeconfig. Otherwise it could bite the user
https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig/

Author: Good shout. Added now.

select the row for the tutorial profile. The details page appears. Then, select **Deploy**. Select **OK** in the
**Create a new cluster?** dialog.

Fill in the required cluster information and configuration deploy cluster wizard. Refer to the
[Deploy a Cluster to Amazon Web Services (AWS)](../../getting-started/palette/aws/aws.md) or
[Deploy a Cluster to Microsoft Azure](../../getting-started/palette/azure/azure.md) sections for more information on
cluster creation.

Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. The cluster deployment process can take 15 to 30 minutes.
Deployment time varies depending on the cloud provider, cluster profile, cluster size, and node pool configurations
provided.

![Deployed cluster](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_deployed-cluster.webp)

Palette indicates that the cluster is deployed, but the Hello Universe add-on is unable to apply.

## Debug the Cluster

The cluster you have deployed does not successfully deploy the Hello Universe add-on application. In this section, you
will use the Palette MCP server investigate and debug these errors.

> Open your MCP client.

Reviewer: This is the part that makes me the most nervous. If the user has not configured the skill or context as explained in the setup guide, the model will fail to find the kubeconfig. I think it's worth doubling down on that here as it will be missed by users.

Author: Have done a warning now.

> Send a query asking to download the [kubeconfig](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) file for one of

Reviewer: Prompt is the more accurate word here 😬 

```suggestion
Send a prompt asking to download the [kubeconfig](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) file for one of
```

❯ Download the kubeconfig file for the `get-started-palette-mcp-cluster` Palette cluster.

⏺ I'll first find the cluster UID by listing clusters, then download the kubeconfig.

  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Found the cluster. Now let me load and call the getKubeconfig tool.

  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ The kubeconfig for get-started-palette-mcp-cluster has been downloaded successfully.

  As noted in the CLAUDE.md instructions, the file was written inside the MCP container at /tmp/kubeconfig/69df9741978d9f786aacf13a.kubeconfig, which is synced to
  your host machine at $HOME/.palette/kubeconfig.

  To use it with kubectl:

  export KUBECONFIG="$HOME/.palette/kubeconfig"
  kubectl get nodes

  Or per-command:

  kubectl --kubeconfig="$HOME/.palette/kubeconfig" get pods -A
```

Investigate if there any failing pods or deployments on your cluster. For example, you can ask "Run kubectl to connect
to the `<cluster-name>` Palette cluster and list any failing pods or deployments." Replace the placeholder with your
cluster name. Your MCP client uses the previously downloaded kubeconfig file to connect to your cluster using kubectl
and investigate the failures.

> ```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"

Reviewer: At first glance, the prompt and the output are hard to differentiate as they all blend together. Maybe split them up??

Author: Good shout! I've split them up now!

  Failing Pod
  - Namespace: hello-universe
  - Pod: hello-universe-deployment-84ff79b6cc-42ggl
  - Status: ImagePullBackOff

  Root Cause
  The pod is trying to pull a container image with an invalid tag:
  ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:invalid
  The tag invalid does not exist in the registry, so Kubernetes can't pull it and the pod never starts.

  Affected Deployment

  - hello-universe/hello-universe-deployment — 0/1 ready (0 available replicas)

  All other deployments across the cluster are healthy (READY matches desired count). The only issue is the bad image tag in the hello-universe deployment.
```

The Palette MCP server identifies that the cluster profile provides an invalid image tag for the Hello Universe
deployment.

Navigate back to your [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) tab in the browser. From the left main menu, select
**Profiles**. Then, select the row for the tutorial profile.

Select the **Hello Universe** pack layer. View the configuration of the pack values.

The `hello-universe` pack sets the image tag used for deploying the
[`hello-universe` application](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe) in the

> `manifests.hello-universe.images.hellouniverse` field of the `hello-universe` add-on pack. The configured image tag does

Reviewer: You could have the user prompt the LLM to get me yaml details for the tutorial cluster profile. Since the YAML is short, it would be a neat experience vs navigating to the console. However, they still need to go there to change the value, but it could be a way to show the value again

Author: Added!

not exist.

```yaml {4}
manifests:
  hello-universe:
    images:
      hellouniverse: ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:invalid
    apiEnabled: false
    namespace: hello-universe
    port: 8080
    replicas: 1
```

Change the `manifests.hello-universe.images.hellouniverse` field to the valid
`ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:1.3.1` tag.

```yaml {4}
manifests:
  hello-universe:
    images:
      hellouniverse: ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:1.3.1
    apiEnabled: false
    namespace: hello-universe
    port: 8080
    replicas: 1
```

Select **Confirm Updates** and then **Save Changes**.

From the left main menu, select **Clusters**. Then, select the row for the tutorial cluster.

The cluster has a pending update for the fixed cluster profile. Select **Updates** to apply the cluster profile update.
Review the changes and select **Apply Changes**.

Wait for Palette to reconcile and apply the changes. All layers of the cluster are now successfully deployed.

![Healthy cluster](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_deployed-cluster-healthy.webp)

> Download the [kubeconfig](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) file for your cluster from the Palette UI.

Reviewer: Do we have to download again? Can't we just ask the model to return the kubeconfig file path and export it? That would help showcase the value of the MCP server again.

Author: You are right. I was being silly.

**Profiles**. Then, select the row for the tutorial profile.

Select the **Kubecost** pack layer. View the configuration of the pack values. The cluster profile has configured the
pack to expose the service on port 8080. The solution identified by the Palette MCP server is correct.

```yaml {4}
service:
  type: ClusterIP
  port: 8080
  targetPort: 8080
  # nodePort:
  labels: {}
  annotations: {}
```

Navigate back to your terminal window and change the port forward command to forward the service port 8080, as suggested
by the response from your MCP client.

```shell
kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9090
```

Navigate back to your browser window and view`http://localhost:9090`. The Kubecost now successfully appears and UI
provides you with a variety of cost visualization tools.

![Image that shows the Kubecost UI](/getting-started/getting-started_update-k8s-cluster_kubecost-ui.webp)

Once you are done exploring locally, you can stop the `kubectl port-forward` command by closing the terminal window it
is executing from.

## Cleanup

> Use the following steps to remove all the resources you created for the tutorial.

Reviewer: We could have the LLM delete the cluster through the MCP server if the user sets the .env DANGEROUS_ACTIONS=1 at the beginning of the tutorial.

Food for thought :)

Author: Big brain thinking. I like it.

---
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Get Started with the Palette MCP Server"
title: "Get Started with the Palette MCP Server"
description: "Learn how to use the Palette MCP Server to connect to and debug cluster deployments."
tags: ["ai", "palette-mcp", "tutorial"]
toc_max_heading_level: 2
category: ["tutorial"]
---

The [Palette MCP Server](https://github.com/spectrocloud/palette-mcp-server) provides an abstraction layer over the
Palette API, allowing you to interact with Palette resources through natural language. It interprets user intent,
translates it into appropriate API requests, and returns structured responses for Large Language Models (LLMs) to
process. By handling the complexity of the underlying API, it allows LLMs to interact with Palette in a consistent and

> reliable way without requiring that users have a detailed knowledge of the API itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reliable way without requiring users to have a detailed knowledge of the API itself.
```

In this tutorial, you will learn how to use the Palette MCP server to debug cluster deployment issues. You will begin by

> importing a cluster profile which has some deliberate errors and use this profile to create a new Palette cluster. Then,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
importing a cluster profile that has some deliberate errors and use this profile to create a new Palette cluster. Then,
```

you will use the Palette MCP server to debug these errors and ensure that your cluster works as expected.

This tutorial uses [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com) and
[Claude Code](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/overview) with the Claude Sonnet 4.6 model. You can use a cloud provider
and MCP client that suits your needs to follow along.

:::info

The [Palette MCP Server](../../../automation/palette-mcp/palette-mcp.md) can be used with any MCP client to investigate
and modify Palette resources. Refer to the [Claude](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-claude.md),
[Cursor](../../../automation/palette-mcp//setup/mcp-setup-cursor.md), or the
[Gemini CLI](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-gemini.md) setup guides to learn how to configure it with
these popular MCP clients.

:::

Below is a high-level diagram of the MCP server workflow. Your MCP client interacts with the Palette MCP server, which

> directly communicates with the Palette API. The Palette MCP Server downloads the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directly communicates with the Palette API. The Palette MCP server downloads the
```

[kubeconfig](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) file for your cluster, which is then used by the MCP
client to gather information about the cluster using the [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/)
command line tool.

![MCP Server operation overview](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_mcp-overview.webp)

## MCP Server Capabilities

<PartialsComponent category="palette-mcp" name="mcp-tools" />

Refer to the [Palette MCP Server Operations](../../../automation/palette-mcp/palette-mcp-operations.md) page to learn

> what operations the MCP server provides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Palette MCP Server Operations](../../../automation/palette-mcp/palette-mcp-operations.md) page for more information and example use cases.
```

## Prerequisites

- Ensure the following software is installed locally on your workstation:

  - The Palette MCP server configured and set up. Refer to the applicable setup guide for
    [Claude](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-claude.md),
    [Cursor](../../../automation/palette-mcp//setup/mcp-setup-cursor.md), or the
    [Gemini CLI](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-gemini.md).

>   - Enable `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` on the Palette MCP Server. Refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Enable `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` on the Palette MCP Server. Refer to
```

    [Server Configuration](../../../automation/palette-mcp/architecture.md#server-configuration) for more information.

  - A container engine, such as [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) or
    [Podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation).

>   - Kubectl installed locally. Use the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Kubectl installed locally. Refer to the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) page for
```

    additional guidance.

- A Palette account.

  - Permissions to download kubeconfig files. Refer to
    [Kubeconfig Access Permissions](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md#kubeconfig-access-permissions)
    for more information.

- A Palette API key. Check out the [Create API Key](../../../user-management/authentication/api-key/create-api-key.md)
  guide for more information.

## Import a Cluster Profile

In this section, you will import a cluster profile into Palette. This profile will be used to deploy a cluster.

:::warning

For learning purposes, there are two errors in these cluster profiles. Avoid using them in workloads outside this
tutorial.

:::

<PartialsComponent category="palette-mcp" name="getting-started-mcp-cluster-profiles" />

> Click **Validate**. Palette displays a _Validated successfully_ message. Click **Confirm**. The cluster profile is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Validate**. Palette displays a **Validated successfully** message. Click **Confirm**. The cluster profile is
```

created.

## Deploy a Cluster

Next, you will deploy a cluster using the imported cluster profile. From the left main menu, select **Profiles**. Then,
select the row for the tutorial profile. The details page appears. Then, select **Deploy**. Select **OK** in the

> **Create a new cluster?** dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you will deploy a cluster using the imported cluster profile. From the left main menu, select **Profiles**, and choose the appropriate `get-started-palette-mcp-aws` or `get-started-palette-mcp-azure` cluster profile. The details page appears. Then, select **Deploy**. Select **OK** in the
**Create a new cluster?** dialog window.
```

Reviewer 2: dialog window was another decision ^

But maybe add the profile name options just so there isn't room for confusion?

> Fill in the required cluster information and configuration deploy cluster wizard. Refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Proceed through the **Deploy cluster profile** wizard, filling in the required cluster information and configurations. Refer to the
```

[Deploy a Cluster to Amazon Web Services (AWS)](../../getting-started/palette/aws/aws.md) or
[Deploy a Cluster to Microsoft Azure](../../getting-started/palette/azure/azure.md) sections for more information on
cluster creation.

> Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. The cluster deployment process can take 15 to 30 minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters** to monitor the state of your deployment.
```

Since we mention deployment time varies, maybe remove the time estimate.

Deployment time varies depending on the cloud provider, cluster profile, cluster size, and node pool configurations
provided.

![Deployed cluster](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_deployed-cluster.webp)

> Palette indicates that the cluster is deployed, but the Hello Universe add-on is unable to apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette indicates that the cluster is deployed, but the **Hello Universe** add-on pack cannot be applied.

![Deployed cluster](/tutorials/ai/palette-mcp/get-started-palette-mcp_deployed-cluster.webp)

```

I would introduce the screenshot first.

## Debug the Cluster

The cluster you have deployed does not successfully deploy the Hello Universe add-on application. In this section, you

> will use the Palette MCP server investigate and debug these errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will use the Palette MCP server to investigate and debug these errors.
```

Open your MCP client.

:::warning

Ensure that you follow all of the steps in the MCP server setup guides before proceeding with the tutorial. You must
configure the `kubeconfig` folder, `.env.mcp` file, and an agent skill for cluster access to through the MCP client to

> succeed. Refer to the [Claude](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-claude.md),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configure the `kubeconfig` folder, `.env.mcp` file, and an agent skill for cluster access through the MCP client to
succeed. Refer to the [Claude](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-claude.md),
```

[Cursor](../../../automation/palette-mcp//setup/mcp-setup-cursor.md), or the
[Gemini CLI](../../../automation/palette-mcp/setup/mcp-setup-gemini.md) pages for more information.

:::

Send a prompt asking to download the [kubeconfig](../../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) file for one of
your running clusters. Replace the placeholder with your cluster name and submit the following prompt. The Palette MCP

> server uses the `getKubeconfig` tool to download the kubeconfig file for you cluster from Palette.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
server uses the `getKubeconfig` tool to download the kubeconfig file for your Palette cluster.
```

```shell title="Example Prompt"
Download the kubeconfig file for the `<cluster-name>` Palette cluster.
```

```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"
❯ Download the kubeconfig file for the `get-started-palette-mcp-cluster` Palette cluster.

⏺ I'll first find the cluster UID by listing clusters, then download the kubeconfig.

  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Found the cluster. Now let me load and call the getKubeconfig tool.

  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ The kubeconfig for get-started-palette-mcp-cluster has been downloaded successfully.

  As noted in the CLAUDE.md instructions, the file was written inside the MCP container at /tmp/kubeconfig/69df9741978d9f786aacf13a.kubeconfig, which is synced to
  your host machine at $HOME/.palette/kubeconfig.

  To use it with kubectl:

  export KUBECONFIG="$HOME/.palette/kubeconfig"
  kubectl get nodes

  Or per-command:

  kubectl --kubeconfig="$HOME/.palette/kubeconfig" get pods -A
```

> Investigate if there any failing pods or deployments on your cluster. Replace the placeholder with your cluster name and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Investigate if there are any failing pods or deployments on your cluster. Replace the placeholder with your cluster name and
```

            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 512Mi
        dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
        restartPolicy: Always
        terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 30
  status:
    replicas: 1
    unavailableReplicas: 1
    updatedReplicas: 1

  Warning — deployment is broken:

  ┌─────────────┬────────┬────────────────────────────┐
  │  Condition  │ Status │           Reason           │
  ├─────────────┼────────┼────────────────────────────┤
  │ Available   │ False  │ MinimumReplicasUnavailable │
  ├─────────────┼────────┼────────────────────────────┤
  │ Progressing │ False  │ ProgressDeadlineExceeded   │
  └─────────────┴────────┴────────────────────────────┘

  - Image: ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:invalid — the :invalid tag does not exist, causing the pod to fail to pull the image.
  - The deployment timed out after 10 minutes (progressDeadlineSeconds: 600) with 0 available replicas — the app is completely down on this cluster.
```

The MCP client identifies that the YAML for the Hello Universe pack has incorrectly set the image tag.

Navigate back to your [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) tab in the browser. From the left main menu, select

> **Profiles**. Then, select the row for the tutorial profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate back to your [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) tab in the browser.  From the left main menu, select **Profiles**, and choose the appropriate `get-started-palette-mcp-aws` or `get-started-palette-mcp-azure` cluster profile.
```

> Select the **Hello Universe** pack layer. View the configuration of the pack values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the `hello-universe` pack layer. View the configuration of the pack values.
```

following prompt. Your MCP client returns the path of the previously downloaded kubeconfig file.

```shell title="Example Prompt"
Return the local path of the downloaded kubeconfig file for `<cluster-name>` Palette cluster.
```

```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"
❯ Return the local path of the downloaded kubeconfig file for `get-started-palette-mcp-cluster` Palette cluster.

  Listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ The local path is:
  ~/.palette/kubeconfig/69df9741978d9f786aacf13a.kubeconfig
```

Open a terminal window and set the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` to the local path returned by the MCP client. Issue
the following command, replacing the placeholder with the path to your kubeconfig file.

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=<local-path>/<file-name>.kubeconfig
```

Forward the Kubecost UI to your local network, as described in
[Navigating the Kubecost UI](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/kubecost/self-hosted/3.x?topic=navigating-kubecost-ui). The
Kubecost dashboard is not exposed externally by default, so the command below will allow you to access it locally on

> port **9090**. If port 9090 is already taken on your machine, you can choose a different one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
port **9090**. If port 9090 is already taken on your machine, you can choose a different port.
```

  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────┤
  │ cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer-prometheus-server │ prometheus                     │ 9090 ✓           │
  └───────────────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
  Port 9090 belongs to the Prometheus server deployment, not the cost-analyzer deployment. The Helm chart declares port 9090 in the cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer
  container spec, but the running application does not bind to it — it uses port 9003 (cost-model API) and 8080 (nginx UI frontend) instead. This is a change in
  newer Kubecost versions where the UI and API were split.

  Fix

  Depending on what you want to access:

  Kubecost UI (nginx frontend):
  kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9090:8080
  Then open http://localhost:9090.

  Kubecost cost-model API:
  kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9003

  Prometheus directly:
  kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer-prometheus-server 9090
```

> Navigate back to your terminal window and change the port forward command to forward the service port 8080 to connect to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate back to your terminal window and change the port forward command to forward service port 8080 to connect to
```

the Kubecost UI, as suggested by the response from your MCP client.

```shell
kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9090:8080
```

Navigate back to your browser window and view`http://localhost:9090`. The Kubecost now successfully appears and UI

> provides you with a variety of cost visualization tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate back to your browser window and view `http://localhost:9090`. The Kubecost UI now successfully appears and
provides you with a variety of cost visualization tools.
```

![Image that shows the Kubecost UI](/getting-started/getting-started_update-k8s-cluster_kubecost-ui.webp)

> Once you are done exploring locally, you can stop the `kubectl port-forward` command by closing the terminal window it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you are done exploring the UI, you can stop the `kubectl port-forward` command by closing the terminal window it
```

is executing from.

## Cleanup

Use the following steps to remove all the resources you created for the tutorial.

:::warning

> Ensure that you enable `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` on the Palette MCP Server before proceeding with this section. Refer to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure that you enable `ALLOW_DANGEROUS_ACTIONS` on the Palette MCP server before proceeding with this section. Refer to
```

the [Server Configuration](../../../automation/palette-mcp/architecture.md#server-configuration) page for more
information.

:::

Navigate to your MCP client.

Send a prompt asking the Palette MCP server to delete the cluster. Replace the placeholder with your cluster name and
submit the following prompt.

```shell title="Example Prompt"
Delete the `<cluster-name>` Palette cluster.
```

```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"
❯ Delete the `get-started-palette-mcp-cluster` Palette cluster.

⏺ This will permanently delete the get-started-palette-mcp-cluster cluster (UID: 69e5fa2b08e508cba60edbb8). This action is irreversible. Are you sure you want to proceed?

❯ Yes
  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Cluster get-started-palette-mcp-cluster has been successfully deleted.
```

Navigate back to the Palette UI. From the left main menu, select **Clusters**. Then, select the row for the tutorial
cluster. Wait for Palette to finish deleting the cluster. This may take some time.

<PartialsComponent category="clusters" name="force-delete-callout" />

Once the tutorial cluster is deleted, navigate back to your MCP client.

> Send a prompt asking the Palette MCP server to delete the tutorial cluster profile. Replace the placeholder with your

Reviewer 2: This part could also be tabbed since we know the cluster profile names. But that's a minor improvement at this point.

Author: I'll just leave it general for now.

cluster profile name and submit the following prompt.

```shell title="Example Prompt"
Delete the `<cluster-profile-name>` Palette cluster profile.
```

```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"
❯ Delete the `get-started-palette-mcp-aws` Palette cluster profile.

⏺ I'll look up the cluster profile first to get its UID.
  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Found it — UID 69de31e540f19df7ae05a3e6. This will permanently delete the get-started-palette-mcp-aws cluster profile. Are you sure you want to proceed?

❯ Yes
  Called palette (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Cluster profile get-started-palette-mcp-aws has been successfully deleted.
```

## Wrap-up

In this tutorial, you imported a cluster profile that had two errors and deployed a cluster using this cluster profile.

> Then, you used the Palette MCP Server to debug the cluster, understand the cause of the errors, and identify fixes to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you used the Palette MCP server to debug the cluster, understand the cause of the errors, and identify fixes to
```

> the errors encountered. This is a common engineering workflow that can be greatly streamlined using the MCP Server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the errors encountered. This is a common engineering workflow that can be greatly streamlined using the MCP server.
```

> The Palette MCP Server has many more capabilities than those we have explored in this tutorial. We encourage you to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Palette MCP server has many more capabilities than those explored in this tutorial. We encourage you to
```

> check out [Integrate Palette MCP in an Agentic Workflow](./integrate-palette-mcp-agentic.md) tutorial to explore a more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
check out the [Integrate Palette MCP in an Agentic Workflow](./integrate-palette-mcp-agentic.md) tutorial to explore a more
```
